Add lesson on working with Copilot (#3)
Ada-Developers-Academy/independent-ai-topics: 06-working-w-copilot/setting-up-copilot.md

# Setting Up Github's Copilot

> ## Goals

Reviewer: add blank line after heading

```suggestion
## Goals

```

> We explored how LLM tools like ChatGPT can assist us with code, but what if we had an AI tool built specifically for coding that lives in our IDE where we work? In this lesson we'll get experience with Github's Copilot – one of several AI Assistant tools created to help developers write code quicker by providing suggestions inside our developer environments. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We explored how LLM tools like ChatGPT can assist us with code, but what if we had an AI tool built specifically for coding that lives in our IDE where we work? In this lesson we'll get experience with Github's Copilot – one of several AI Assistant tools created to help developers write code more quickly by providing suggestions inside our development environments. 
```

Our goals for this lesson are to:
- Understand why we may want to use AI code assistants

> - Get access to Copilot through the GitHub student developer pack

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Get access to Copilot through the GitHub Student Developer Pack
```

- Set up the Copilot VS Code extension

> ## Why use tools like Copilot?

Reviewer: Just a nit. Past curriculum guidance has usually tried to make the headers make a statement about the section (a bit of a punch line) rather than pose a question (especially for callouts). Maybe consider something like
```suggestion
## Copilot Supports Developers
```

But I don't feel terribly strongly about this.

As coding assistants like Copilot become more available and implemented in the industry, it can be helpful to have some experience with how to work with them and where they can be of the most use. But aside from "Because other folks are using them", why do we want to get familiar with these tools? 

> The response from many developers is that these tools free you up to spend more time on the unique or complicated parts of your project. We can spend less time looking up boilerplate code online or in a previous project if we can quickly describe what we need and have Copilot generate the code. If we're diving into a new code base, Copilot can help explain sections of code to us so we can get running and ready to contribute faster. 

Reviewer: - I think we can stick with we voicing here
- I was a bit confused by the "get running" phrasing. Do we need it?
```suggestion
The response from many developers is that these tools free us up to spend more time on the unique or complicated parts of our projects. We can spend less time looking up boilerplate code online or in a previous project if we can quickly describe what we need and have Copilot generate the code. If we're diving into a new code base, Copilot can help explain sections of code to us so that we can contribute faster. 
```

Like all AI tools, Copilot isn't infallible. When writing code, we still need to know the project and language well enough to understand what functions we'd like to write and how those functions should look. We need that knowledge base to consistently and effectively describe what we want in enough detail to get suggestions, then understand if the suggested code meets our requirements. 

## Accessing Copilot

> Github's Copilot is a paid service that is free for students for a limited time through the Github Student Developer Pack. When we redeemed the student developer pack for tools that we used in Unit 2, we also got access to Copilot, but we need to turn on the service. To do so:
> 
> 1. Check if your student developer pack is still active from Unit 2.
>    - Look for a "PRO" status under "Highlights" in your profile on GitHub (In the upper-right corner of any page, click your profile photo, then click "Your Profile").  

Reviewer: - minimize references to other parts of the curriculum if they can be avoided
- consistent casing on Student Developer Pack
- the parenthetical is long enough that it feels fine to me as a sentence
```suggestion
Github's Copilot is a paid service that is free for students for a limited time through the Github Student Developer Pack. When redeeming the Student Developer Pack for any of the other benefits it provides, we also gain access to Copilot, but we need to turn on the service. To do so:

1. Check if your Student Developer Pack is currently active.
   - Look for a "PRO" status under "Highlights" in your profile on GitHub. In the upper-right corner of any page, click your profile photo, then click "Your Profile".  
```

   ![A GitHub profile page with the "Highlights" section circled](assets/setting-up-copilot/github-profile-pro-location.png)  
   *Fig. "Highlights" section of a profile on GitHub*

>    - If your developer pack is expired or you have trouble with the following steps, please drop by office hours or reach out to an instructor to help you troubleshoot student developer pack access.

Reviewer: What's the troubleshooting plan? Issue a new pack code? I know in the past, students have filed tickets with GtiHub to investigate their pack access, but I'm not sure what the exact process is for that. It would be nice if anything we need to know about this was captured in an instructor doc for this.

Or if we can locate where a student is supposed to file with GitHub, we could include a link directly in the text here. Or if the only thing an instructor can reasonably do is to issue a new code, we could phrase this more towards something like  "reach out to an instructor to refresh your code."

Author: I found [where students should file with GitHub](https://support.github.com/contact/education), so I'll add a link to there. Does it sound okay to also add, "If Github Support cannot resolve access issues, reach out to an instructor to refresh your code." or should we leave that off to encourage folks to reach out to support first?

Author: Changed the language to the following for now:

> If you have issues activating your Student Developer Pack, please file a ticket with [GitHub Education Support](https://support.github.com/contact/education). The linked support page also has a button to troubleshoot with GitHub's Virtual Agent in case it can provide immediate help.

Reviewer: Nice! Maybe s/activating/accessing/? In theory, they should have activated it already.

>    - If your developer pack is expired or you have trouble with the following steps, please drop by office hours or reach out to an instructor to help you troubleshoot student developer pack access.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - If your Student Developer Pack is expired or you have trouble with the following steps, please drop by office hours or reach out to an instructor to help you troubleshoot Student Developer Pack access.
```

> 2. Go to the account settings screen by clicking your profile photo in the upper-right corner of any page, then click "Settings". Under the "Code, planning, and automation" section of the "Settings" sidebar, click "Copilot".  

Reviewer: Traditionally, we've written numbered lists as all 1.s, and leave it to the MD renderer to number them accordingly, which insulated us if we need to reorder or insert steps. But these days, VS Code seems to do a pretty good job of auto-numbering (it's hard to fight *against* it), so I'm feeling more like this is the way to go. Thoughts?

Author: I fully see the benefit and I'm good switching over to 1.s if that's the instructor consensus. Just as you mentioned, VS Code tries really hard to autonumber and I forgot to go back and switch them to 1.s once I was in my clean up phase.

Reviewer: I feel like with how hard VS Code fights us, it's probably more work to stay with the all 1.s at this point. And if we switch to the 1.s then move things around, VS Code can incorrectly renumber a portion of the numbers and we might not notice. At least if we write the actual numbers, it's more in mind that we need to pay attention to the numbers. So I guess I'm leaning more towards using the actual numbers now.

   ![The GitHub "Settings" menu with the "Code, planning, and automation" section underlined and the "Copilot" option circled](assets/setting-up-copilot/github-settings-menu.png)  
   *Fig. "Copilot" option in the "Settings" menu*

> 3. Click “Enable Copilot” and we should see a message that we have access to Copilot for free and a new button “Continue to get access to Github Copilot” that we should click.

Reviewer: - I tend to avoid "should"s in observing outcomes. (The should in recommending action feels fine)
```suggestion
3. Click “Enable Copilot”. A message will appear that we have access to Copilot for free, along with a new button “Continue to get access to Github Copilot” that we should click.
```

> 4. We will be taken to a preferences screen where we can choose some options about how copilot will use public code and snippets it generates. 

Reviewer: - Copilot casing
```suggestion
4. We will be taken to a preferences screen where we can choose some options about how Copilot will use public code and snippets it generates. 
```

>    - Choose what you are most comfortable with, these choices can be updated at any time by navigating to "Settings" > "Copilot".

Reviewer: I'd really like to give a baseline recommendation here, but I tried writing something a few times and wasn't really happy with it. Something like, leaving the options on can help improve the overall quality of Copilot, but that turning them off won't impact your ability to get recommendtions. I do happen to have these settings enabled. How do you feel about them?

Author: I'm pretty sure I have them enabled, nothing I work with has potentially sensitive information or code with restrictions on access, so I don't have a strong reason to turn them off. If I was working on a lot of personal projects that I intended to develop into a business of some kind I might feel differently.

Reviewer: Maybe something like, the settings will default to on, but turning them off will not prevent you from using Copilot if you prefer? A little noncommital, but acknowledges the default setting. Worth it?

## Setting up Copilot in VS Code

> We will be using Copilot exclusively from VS Code in this lesson. Feel free to follow your curiosity and look up if plugins are available for any other IDEs you would like to try Copilot out in. 

Reviewer: - rephrased to avoid dangling prepositions
```suggestion
We will be using Copilot exclusively from VS Code in this lesson. Feel free to follow your curiosity and look up whether plugins are available for any other IDEs in which you would like to try out Copilot. 
```

To add Copilot to VS Code, we need to install the Copilot extension:

1. Open VS Code, then click the Extensions tab.
 
2. In the Extensions tab, search for "GitHub Copilot"  
   ![The "Extensions" tab of VS Code with the search terms "GitHub Copilot" entered in the search bar. The results show "GitHub Copilot" as the first result, which is circled in red.](assets/setting-up-copilot/vscode-search-copilot.png)  
   *Fig. "GitHub Copilot" in the VS Code Extension search results*

> 3. You can install GitHub Copilot using the "Install" button directly on the entry in the results list or click the "GitHub Copilot" result to go to their extension page and click "Install" from there.  

Reviewer: Judgment call, since the next bullet switches to you voicing, but I think this section started off as "we need to install", holding onto we voicing here still works.
```suggestion
3. We can install GitHub Copilot using the "Install" button directly on the entry in the results list or click the "GitHub Copilot" result to go to their extension page and click "Install" from there.  
```

   ![The information page for the GitHub Copilot Extension](assets/setting-up-copilot/vscode-copilot-extension-page.png)  
   *Fig. "GitHub Copilot"'s extension page in VS Code*

> 4. If you haven't previously authorized VS Code in your GitHub account, you will be asked to sign in to GitHub inside VS Code (If you've previously authorized Visual Studio Code in your GitHub account, GitHub Copilot should automatically be authorized).

Reviewer: - for me, another long parenthetical that can be a sentence.
```suggestion
4. If you haven't previously authorized VS Code in your GitHub account, you will be asked to sign in to GitHub inside VS Code. If you've previously authorized Visual Studio Code in your GitHub account, GitHub Copilot should automatically be authorized.
```

   - In your browser, GitHub will request the necessary permissions for GitHub Copilot. To approve these permissions, click Authorize Visual Studio Code.

>    - In Visual Studio Code, in the "Visual Studio Code" dialogue box, click "Open" to confirm the authentication.

Reviewer: - dialog box is more common in American English
```suggestion
   - In Visual Studio Code, in the "Visual Studio Code" dialog box, click "Open" to confirm the authentication.
```

> If you'd like to see instructions for setting up the Copilot extension in VS Code written another way, check out GitHub's ["Getting started with GitHub Copilot"](https://docs.github.com/en/copilot/using-github-copilot/getting-started-with-github-copilot#installing-the-github-copilot-extension-in-visual-studio-code) documentation.

Reviewer: - Since we're back out of steps, this can be phrased to avoid you voicing.

```suggestion
For instructions to set up the Copilot extension in VS Code written another way, check out GitHub's ["Getting started with GitHub Copilot"](https://docs.github.com/en/copilot/using-github-copilot/getting-started-with-github-copilot#installing-the-github-copilot-extension-in-visual-studio-code) documentation.
```

## Summary

> We should now have Copilot turned on in GitHub, installed the copilot VS Code extension, and authorized the extension with our GitHub account. If you ran into issues with any of these steps please reach out in #study-hall, come to office hours, or chat with another student or instructor to get yourself unstuck. Keep going to the next lesson to dig into how we can start working with Copilot!

Reviewer: - Copilot casing
- the last sentence feels like it gets lost in this paragraph

```suggestion
We should now have Copilot turned on in GitHub, installed the Copilot VS Code extension, and authorized the extension with our GitHub account. If you ran into issues with any of these steps please reach out in #study-hall, come to office hours, or chat with another student or instructor to get yourself unstuck.

Keep going to the next lesson to dig into how we can start working with Copilot!
```

## Check for Understanding

<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->
### !challenge
* type: tasklist
* id: ef3343f5-b335-4306-9eec-9c3e49803437
* title: Setting Up Copilot
##### !question

Check off all the steps you've completed to get access to Copilot.

##### !end-question
##### !options

> * Turned on Copilot access in your GitHub account's settings.

Reviewer: - remove period for consistency with other options
```suggestion
* Turned on Copilot access in your GitHub account's settings
```

* Installed the GitHub Copilot extension for VS Code
* Authorized the Copilot extension for VS Code with GitHub

##### !end-options
### !end-challenge

> <!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

Reviewer 2: This lesson looks pretty good to me! The walkthrough on setup works well!
